# §26.13 Permutations: Cycle Notation

:::{note}
**Defines:**

$\mathfrak{S}_{\NVar{n}}$ : set of permutations of $\{1,2,\ldots,n\}$

**Keywords:**

[Stirling cycle numbers](http://dlmf.nist.gov/search/search?q=Stirling%20cycle%20numbers) , [adjacent transposition](http://dlmf.nist.gov/search/search?q=adjacent%20transposition) , [cycle notation](http://dlmf.nist.gov/search/search?q=cycle%20notation) , [derangement](http://dlmf.nist.gov/search/search?q=derangement) , [derangement number](http://dlmf.nist.gov/search/search?q=derangement%20number) , [even or odd](http://dlmf.nist.gov/search/search?q=even%20or%20odd) , [fixed points](http://dlmf.nist.gov/search/search?q=fixed%20points) , [inversion numbers](http://dlmf.nist.gov/search/search?q=inversion%20numbers) , [permutations](http://dlmf.nist.gov/search/search?q=permutations) , [sign](http://dlmf.nist.gov/search/search?q=sign) , [transpositions](http://dlmf.nist.gov/search/search?q=transpositions)

**Notes:**

See Cameron ([1994](./bib/C.html#bib405 "Combinatorics: Topics, Techniques, Algorithms"), pp. 77, 80–84) and Stanley ([1997](./bib/S.html#bib2157 "Enumerative Combinatorics. Vol. 1"), pp. 20–21, 67).

**Referenced by:**

§1.2(vi) , §26.14(i) , §26.15

**See also:**

Annotations for Ch.26
:::

$\mathfrak{S}_{n}$ denotes the set of permutations of $\{1,2,\ldots,n\}$ . $\sigma\in\mathfrak{S}_{n}$ is a one-to-one and onto mapping from $\{1,2,\ldots,n\}$ to itself. An explicit representation of $\sigma$ can be given by the $2\times n$ matrix:


<a id="E1"></a>
$$
\begin{bmatrix}1&2&3&\cdots&n\\
\sigma(1)&\sigma(2)&\sigma(3)&\cdots&\sigma(n)\end{bmatrix}. \tag{26.13.1}
$$

In cycle notation, the elements in each cycle are put inside parentheses, ordered so that $\sigma(j)$ immediately follows $j$ or, if $j$ is the last listed element of the cycle, then $\sigma(j)$ is the first element of the cycle. The permutation


<a id="E2"></a>
$$
\begin{bmatrix}1&2&3&4&5&6&7&8\\
3&5&2&4&7&8&1&6\end{bmatrix} \tag{26.13.2}
$$

is ${\left(1,3,2,5,7\right)}{\left(4\right)}{\left(6,8\right)}$ in cycle notation. Cycles of length one are *fixed points* . They are often dropped from the cycle notation. In consequence, ( 26.13.2 ) can also be written as ${\left(1,3,2,5,7\right)}{\left(6,8\right)}$ .

An element of $\mathfrak{S}_{n}$ with $a_{1}$ fixed points, $a_{2}$ cycles of length $2,\ldots,a_{n}$ cycles of length $n$ , where $n=a_{1}+2a_{2}+\cdots+na_{n}$ , is said to have *cycle type* ${\left(a_{1},a_{2},\ldots,a_{n}\right)}$ . The number of elements of $\mathfrak{S}_{n}$ with cycle type ${\left(a_{1},a_{2},\ldots,a_{n}\right)}$ is given by ( 26.4.7 ).

The *Stirling cycle numbers* of the first kind, denoted by $\genfrac{[}{]}{0.0pt}{}{n}{k}$ , count the number of permutations of $\{1,2,\ldots,n\}$ with exactly $k$ cycles. They are related to Stirling numbers of the first kind by


<a id="E3"></a>
$$
\genfrac{[}{]}{0.0pt}{}{n}{k}=\left|s\left(n,k\right)\right|. \tag{26.13.3}
$$

See § [26.8](./26.8.md "§26.8 Set Partitions: Stirling Numbers ‣ Properties ‣ Chapter 26 Combinatorial Analysis") for generating functions, recurrence relations, identities, and asymptotic approximations.

A *derangement* is a permutation with no fixed points. The *derangement number* , $d(n)$ , is the number of elements of $\mathfrak{S}_{n}$ with no fixed points:


<a id="E4"></a>
$$
d(n)=n!\sum_{j=0}^{n}(-1)^{j}\frac{1}{j!}=\left\lfloor\frac{n!+\mathrm{e}-2}{\mathrm{e}}\right\rfloor. \tag{26.13.4}
$$

A *transposition* is a permutation that consists of a single cycle of length two. An *adjacent transposition* is a transposition of two consecutive integers. A permutation that consists of a single cycle of length $k$ can be written as the composition of $k-1$ two-cycles (read from right to left):


<a id="E5"></a>
$$
{\left(j_{1},j_{2},\ldots,j_{k}\right)}={\left(j_{1},j_{2}\right)}{\left(j_{2},j_{3}\right)}\cdots{\left(j_{k-2},j_{k-1}\right)}{\left(j_{k-1},j_{k}\right)}. \tag{26.13.5}
$$

Every permutation is a product of transpositions. A permutation with cycle type ${\left(a_{1},a_{2},\ldots,a_{n}\right)}$ can be written as a product of $a_{2}+2a_{3}+\cdots+(n-1)a_{n}=n-(a_{1}+a_{2}+\cdots+a_{n})$ transpositions, and no fewer. For the example ( 26.13.2 ), this decomposition is given by ${\left(1,3,2,5,7\right)}{\left(6,8\right)}={\left(1,3\right)}{\left(2,3\right)}{\left(2,5\right)}{\left(5,7\right)}{\left(6,8\right)}.$

A permutation is *even* or *odd* according to the parity of the number of transpositions. The *sign of a permutation* is $+$ if the permutation is even, $-$ if it is odd.

Every transposition is the product of adjacent transpositions. If $j<k$ , then ${\left(j,k\right)}$ is a product of $2k-2j-1$ adjacent transpositions:


<a id="E6"></a>
$$
{\left(j,k\right)}={\left(k-1,k\right)}{\left(k-2,k-1\right)}\cdots{\left(j+1,j+2\right)}\*{\left(j,j+1\right)}{\left(j+1,j+2\right)}\cdots{\left(k-1,k\right)}. \tag{26.13.6}
$$

Every permutation is a product of adjacent transpositions. Given a permutation $\sigma\in\mathfrak{S}_{n}$ , the *inversion number* of $\sigma$ , denoted $\mathop{\mathrm{inv}}(\sigma)$ , is the least number of adjacent transpositions required to represent $\sigma$ . Again, for the example ( 26.13.2 ) a minimal decomposition into adjacent transpositions is given by ${\left(1,3,2,5,7\right)}{\left(6,8\right)}={\left(2,3\right)}\*{\left(1,2\right)}\*{\left(4,5\right)}{\left(3,4\right)}{\left(2,3\right)}{\left(3,4\right)}{\left(4,5\right)}{\left(6,7\right)}{\left(5,6\right)}{\left(7,8\right)}\*{\left(6,7\right)}$ : $\mathop{\mathrm{inv}}({\left(1,3,2,5,7\right)}{\left(6,8\right)})=11$ .
