# §27.20 Methods of Computation: Other Number-Theoretic Functions

:::{note}
**Keywords:**

[computation](http://dlmf.nist.gov/search/search?q=computation) , [number-theoretic functions](http://dlmf.nist.gov/search/search?q=number-theoretic%20functions)

**Referenced by:**

§27.20 , Erratum (V1.0.11) for Section 27.20

**Replacement (effective with 1.0.11):**

[27.20](./27.20.md "§27.20 Methods of Computation: Other Number-Theoretic Functions ‣ Computation ‣ Chapter 27 Functions of Number Theory") which read, To calculate a multiplicative function it suffices to determine its values at the prime powers and then use ( 27.3.2 ). For a completely multiplicative function we use the values at the primes together with ( 27.3.10 ). The recursion formulas ( 27.14.6 ) and ( 27.14.7 ) can be used to calculate the partition function $p\left(n\right)$ . A similar recursion formula obtained by differentiating ( 27.14.18 ) can be used to calculate Ramanujan’s function $\tau\left(n\right)$ , and the values can be checked by the congruence ( 27.14.20 ). For further information see Lehmer ([1941](./bib/L.html#bib1407 "Guide to Tables in the Theory of Numbers"), pp. 5–83) and Lehmer ([1943](./bib/L.html#bib1408 "Ramanujan’s function ⁢ τ ( n )"), pp. 483–492). was replaced.

**See also:**

Annotations for Ch.27
:::

To calculate a multiplicative function it suffices to determine its values at the prime powers and then use ( 27.3.2 ). For a completely multiplicative function we use the values at the primes together with ( 27.3.10 ).

The recursion formulas ( 27.14.6 ) and ( 27.14.7 ) can be used to calculate the partition function $p\left(n\right)$ for $n<N$ . See Calkin et al. ([2007](./bib/C.html#bib2876 "Computing the integer partition function")), and Lehmer ([1941](./bib/L.html#bib1407 "Guide to Tables in the Theory of Numbers"), pp. 5–83). To compute a particular value $p\left(n\right)$ it is better to use the Hardy–Ramanujan–Rademacher series ( 27.14.9 ). See Johansson ([2012](./bib/J.html#bib2877 "Efficient implementation of the Hardy-Ramanujan-Rademacher formula")).

A recursion formula obtained by differentiating ( 27.14.18 ) can be used to calculate Ramanujan’s function $\tau\left(n\right)$ , and the values can be checked by the congruence ( 27.14.20 ). See Lehmer ([1943](./bib/L.html#bib1408 "Ramanujan’s function ⁢ τ ( n )"), pp. 483–492).
