# §14.16 Zeros

:::{note}
**See also:**

Annotations for Ch.14
:::


## §14.16(i) Notation

:::{note}
**See also:**

Annotations for §14.16 and Ch.14
:::

Throughout this section we assume that $\mu$ and $\nu$ are real, and when they are not integers we write

<a id="E1"></a>

<a id="Ex1"></a>
$$
\displaystyle\mu \displaystyle=m+\delta_{\mu}, \tag{14.16.1}
$$

<a id="Ex2"></a>
$$
\displaystyle\nu \displaystyle=n+\delta_{\nu},
$$

:::{note}
**Symbols:**

$m$: nonnegative integer , $n$: nonnegative integer , $\mu$: general order , $\nu$: general degree and $\delta_{\mu}$

**See also:**

Annotations for §14.16(i) , §14.16 and Ch.14
:::

where $m$ , $n\in\mathbb{Z}$ and $\delta_{\mu}$ , $\delta_{\nu}\in(0,1)$ . For all cases concerning $\mathsf{P}^{\mu}_{\nu}\left(x\right)$ and $P^{\mu}_{\nu}\left(x\right)$ we assume that $\nu\geq-\frac{1}{2}$ without loss of generality (see ( 14.9.5 ) and ( 14.9.11 )).


## §14.16(ii) Interval −1<x<1

:::{note}
**Keywords:**

[Ferrers functions](http://dlmf.nist.gov/search/search?q=Ferrers%20functions) , [zeros](http://dlmf.nist.gov/search/search?q=zeros)

**Notes:**

See Hobson ([1931](./bib/H.html#bib1092 "The Theory of Spherical and Ellipsoidal Harmonics"), pp. 386–388 and 399–401).

**See also:**

Annotations for §14.16 and Ch.14
:::

The number of zeros of $\mathsf{P}^{\mu}_{\nu}\left(x\right)$ in the interval $(-1,1)$ is $\max(\lceil\nu-|\mu|\rceil,0)$ if any of the following sets of conditions hold:

* $\mu\leq 0$ .
* $\mu>0$ , $n\geq m$ , and $\delta_{\nu}>\delta_{\mu}$ .
* $\mu>0$ , $n<m$ , and $m-n$ is odd.
* $\nu=0,1,2,3,\dots$ .

The number of zeros of $\mathsf{P}^{\mu}_{\nu}\left(x\right)$ in the interval $(-1,1)$ is $\max(\lceil\nu-|\mu|\rceil,0)+1$ if either of the following sets of conditions holds:

* $\mu>0$ , $n>m$ , and $\delta_{\nu}\leq\delta_{\mu}$ .
* $\mu>0$ , $n<m$ , and $m-n$ is even.

The zeros of $\mathsf{Q}^{\mu}_{\nu}\left(x\right)$ in the interval $(-1,1)$ interlace those of $\mathsf{P}^{\mu}_{\nu}\left(x\right)$ . $\mathsf{Q}^{\mu}_{\nu}\left(x\right)$ has $\max(\lceil\nu-|\mu|\rceil,0)+k$ zeros in the interval $(-1,1)$ , where $k$ can take one of the values $-1$ , $0$ , $1$ , $2$ , subject to $\max(\lceil\nu-|\mu|\rceil,0)+k$ being even or odd according as $\cos\left(\nu\pi\right)$ and $\cos\left(\mu\pi\right)$ have opposite signs or the same sign. In the special case $\mu=0$ and $\nu=n=0,1,2,3,\dots$ , $\mathsf{Q}_{n}\left(x\right)$ has $n+1$ zeros in the interval $-1<x<1$ .

For uniform asymptotic approximations for the zeros of $\mathsf{P}^{-m}_{n}\left(x\right)$ in the interval $-1<x<1$ when $n\to\infty$ with $m$ $(\geq 0)$ fixed, see Olver ([1997b](./bib/O.html#bib1809 "Asymptotics and Special Functions"), p. 469).


## §14.16(iii) Interval 1<x<∞

:::{note}
**Keywords:**

[associated Legendre functions](http://dlmf.nist.gov/search/search?q=associated%20Legendre%20functions) , [zeros](http://dlmf.nist.gov/search/search?q=zeros)

**Notes:**

See Hobson ([1931](./bib/H.html#bib1092 "The Theory of Spherical and Ellipsoidal Harmonics"), pp. 388–389 and 399).

**See also:**

Annotations for §14.16 and Ch.14
:::

$P^{\mu}_{\nu}\left(x\right)$ has exactly one zero in the interval $(1,\infty)$ if either of the following sets of conditions holds:

* $\mu>0$ , $\mu>\nu$ , $\mu\notin\mathbb{Z}$ , and $\sin\left((\mu-\nu)\pi\right)$ and $\sin\left(\mu\pi\right)$ have opposite signs.
* $\mu\leq\nu$ , $\mu\notin\mathbb{Z}$ , and $\lfloor\mu\rfloor$ is odd.

For all other values of $\mu$ and $\nu$ (with $\nu\geq-\frac{1}{2}$ ) $P^{\mu}_{\nu}\left(x\right)$ has no zeros in the interval $(1,\infty)$ .

$\boldsymbol{Q}^{\mu}_{\nu}\left(x\right)$ has no zeros in the interval $(1,\infty)$ when $\nu>-1$ , and at most one zero in the interval $(1,\infty)$ when $\nu<-1$ .
