# §27.19 Methods of Computation: Factorization

:::{note}
**Keywords:**

[factorization](http://dlmf.nist.gov/search/search?q=factorization) , [of integers](http://dlmf.nist.gov/search/search?q=of%20integers) , [pseudorandom numbers](http://dlmf.nist.gov/search/search?q=pseudorandom%20numbers)

**Referenced by:**

1st item , 2nd item , Ch.27 , Erratum (V1.0.19) for Notation

**See also:**

Annotations for Ch.27
:::

Techniques for factorization of integers fall into three general classes: *Deterministic algorithms* , *Type I probabilistic algorithms* whose expected running time depends on the size of the smallest prime factor, and *Type II probabilistic algorithms* whose expected running time depends on the size of the number to be factored.

Deterministic algorithms are slow but are guaranteed to find the factorization within a known period of time. Trial division is one example. Fermat’s algorithm is another; see Bressoud ([1989](./bib/B.html#bib347 "Factorization and Primality Testing"), §5.1).

Type I probabilistic algorithms include the *Brent–Pollard rho algorithm* (also called *Monte Carlo method* ), the *Pollard $p-1$ algorithm* , and the *Elliptic Curve Method* ( ecm ). Descriptions of these algorithms are given in Crandall and Pomerance ([2005](./bib/C.html#bib596 "Prime Numbers: A Computational Perspective"), §§5.2, 5.4, and 7.4). As of January 2009 the largest prime factors found by these methods are a 19-digit prime for Brent–Pollard rho, a 58-digit prime for Pollard $p-1$ , and a 67-digit prime for ecm .

Type II probabilistic algorithms for factoring $n$ rely on finding a pseudo-random pair of integers $(x,y)$ that satisfy $x^{2}\equiv y^{2}\pmod{n}$ . These algorithms include the *Continued Fraction Algorithm* ( cfrac ), the *Multiple Polynomial Quadratic Sieve* ( mpqs ), the *General Number Field Sieve* ( gnfs ), and the *Special Number Field Sieve* ( snfs ). A description of cfrac is given in Bressoud and Wagon ([2000](./bib/B.html#bib349 "A Course in Computational Number Theory")). Descriptions of mpqs , gnfs , and snfs are given in Crandall and Pomerance ([2005](./bib/C.html#bib596 "Prime Numbers: A Computational Perspective"), §§6.1 and 6.2). As of January 2009 the snfs holds the record for the largest integer that has been factored by a Type II probabilistic algorithm, a 307-digit composite integer. The snfs can be applied only to numbers that are very close to a power of a very small base. The largest composite numbers that have been factored by other Type II probabilistic algorithms are a 63-digit integer by cfrac , a 135-digit integer by mpqs , and a 182-digit integer by gnfs .

For further information see Crandall and Pomerance ([2005](./bib/C.html#bib596 "Prime Numbers: A Computational Perspective")) and § [26.22](./26.22.md "§26.22 Software ‣ Computation ‣ Chapter 26 Combinatorial Analysis") .

For current records see [Cunningham Project](./http://homes.cerias.purdue.edu/homes/ssw/cun/index.md) .
