# §27.16 Cryptography

:::{note}
**Keywords:**

[Euler–Fermat theorem](http://dlmf.nist.gov/search/search?q=Euler%E2%80%93Fermat%20theorem) , [applications](http://dlmf.nist.gov/search/search?q=applications) , [cryptography](http://dlmf.nist.gov/search/search?q=cryptography) , [number theory](http://dlmf.nist.gov/search/search?q=number%20theory) , [prime numbers](http://dlmf.nist.gov/search/search?q=prime%20numbers) , [public key codes](http://dlmf.nist.gov/search/search?q=public%20key%20codes)

**Referenced by:**

§23.20(iii) , Erratum (V1.0.1) for Clarifications , Erratum (V1.0.19) for Notation

**Update (effective with 1.0.1):**

The data in the second paragraph of this section was updated to 2010. *Suggested 2011-01-07 by Francois Grieu*

**See also:**

Annotations for Ch.27
:::

Applications to cryptography rely on the disparity in computer time required to find large primes and to factor large integers.

For example, a code maker chooses two large primes $p$ and $q$ of about 400 decimal digits each. Procedures for finding such primes require very little computer time. The primes are kept secret but their product $n=pq$ , an 800-digit number, is made public. For this reason, these are often called public key codes. Messages are coded by a method (described below) that requires only the knowledge of $n$ . But to decode, both factors $p$ and $q$ must be known. With the most efficient computer techniques devised to date (2010), factoring an 800-digit number may require billions of years on a single computer. For this reason, the codes are considered unbreakable, at least with the current state of knowledge on factoring large numbers.

To code a message by this method, we replace each letter by two digits, say $A=01$ , $B=02$ , $\dots$ , $Z=26$ , and divide the message into pieces of convenient length smaller than the public value $n=pq$ . Choose a prime $r$ that does not divide either $p-1$ or $q-1$ . Like $n$ , the prime $r$ is made public. To code a piece $x$ , raise $x$ to the power $r$ and reduce $x^{r}$ modulo $n$ to obtain an integer $y$ (the coded form of $x$ ) between $1$ and $n$ . Thus, $y\equiv x^{r}\pmod{n}$ and $1\leq y<n$ .

To decode, we must recover $x$ from $y$ . To do this, let $s$ denote the reciprocal of $r$ modulo $\phi\left(n\right)$ , so that $rs=1+t\phi\left(n\right)$ for some integer $t$ . (Here $\phi\left(n\right)$ is Euler’s totient (§ [27.2](./27.2.md "§27.2 Functions ‣ Multiplicative Number Theory ‣ Chapter 27 Functions of Number Theory") ).) By the Euler–Fermat theorem ( 27.2.8 ), $x^{\phi\left(n\right)}\equiv 1\pmod{n}$ ; hence $x^{t\phi\left(n\right)}\equiv 1\pmod{n}$ . But $y^{s}\equiv x^{rs}\equiv x^{1+t\phi\left(n\right)}\equiv x\pmod{n}$ , so $y^{s}$ is the same as $x$ modulo $n$ . In other words, to recover $x$ from $y$ we simply raise $y$ to the power $s$ and reduce modulo $n$ . If $p$ and $q$ are known, $s$ and $y^{s}$ can be determined (mod $n$ ) by straightforward calculations that require only a few minutes of machine time. But if $p$ and $q$ are not known, the problem of recovering $x$ from $y$ seems insurmountable.

For further information see Apostol and Niven ([1994](./bib/index.html#bib120 "Number Theory"), p. 24), and for other applications to cryptography see Menezes et al. ([1997](./bib/M.html#bib1600 "Handbook of Applied Cryptography")) and Schroeder ([2006](./bib/S.html#bib2020 "Number Theory in Science and Communication: With Applications in Cryptography, Physics, Digital Information, Computing, and Self-Similarity")).
