# §27.22 Software

:::{note}
**Referenced by:**

Ch.27 , § ‣ Software Cross Index

**See also:**

Annotations for Ch.27
:::

In this section we provide links to the known sources of software for factorization and primality testing, as well as additional Web-based resources for information on these topics.

* [Maple](./bib/M.html#bib2530 ""). isprime combines a strong pseudoprime test and a Lucas pseudoprime test. ifactor uses cfrac (§ [27.19](./27.19.md "§27.19 Methods of Computation: Factorization ‣ Computation ‣ Chapter 27 Functions of Number Theory") ) after exhausting trial division. Brent–Pollard rho, Square Forms Factorization, and ecm are available also; see § [27.19](./27.19.md "§27.19 Methods of Computation: Factorization ‣ Computation ‣ Chapter 27 Functions of Number Theory") .
* [Mathematica](./bib/M.html#bib2531 ""). PrimeQ combines strong pseudoprime tests for the bases 2 and 3 and a Lucas pseudoprime test. No known composite numbers pass these three tests, and Bleichenbacher ([1996](./bib/B.html#bib296 "Efficiency and Security of Cryptosystems Based on Number Theory")) has shown that this combination of tests proves primality for integers below $10^{16}$ . Provable PrimeQ uses the Atkin–Goldwasser–Kilian–Morain Elliptic Curve Method to prove primality. FactorInteger tries Brent–Pollard rho, Pollard $p-1$ , and then cfrac after trial division. See § [27.19](./27.19.md "§27.19 Methods of Computation: Factorization ‣ Computation ‣ Chapter 27 Functions of Number Theory") . ecm is available also, and the Multiple Polynomial Quadratic sieve is expected in a future release.
* [Cunningham Project](./bib/C.html#bib2514 ""). This includes updates of factorization records.
* [ECMNET Project](./bib/E.html#bib2516 ""). Links to software for elliptic curve methods of factorization and primality testing.
* [GIMPS](./bib/G.html#bib2522 ""). This includes updates of the largest known Mersenne prime.
* [Number Theory Web](./bib/N.html#bib2541 ""). References and links to software for factorization and primality testing.
* [Prime Pages](./bib/P.html#bib2545 ""). Information on primes, primality testing, and factorization including links to programs and lists of primes.
* [Wolfram’s Mathworld](./bib/W.html#bib2552 ""). Descriptions, references, and Mathematica algorithms for factorization and primality testing.
