# §2.3 Integrals of a Real Variable

:::{note}
**See also:**

Annotations for Ch.2
:::


## §2.3(i) Integration by Parts

:::{note}
**Keywords:**

[Fourier integral](http://dlmf.nist.gov/search/search?q=Fourier%20integral) , [Fourier integrals](http://dlmf.nist.gov/search/search?q=Fourier%20integrals) , [Laplace transform](http://dlmf.nist.gov/search/search?q=Laplace%20transform) , [Laplace transforms](http://dlmf.nist.gov/search/search?q=Laplace%20transforms) , [asymptotic approximations of integrals](http://dlmf.nist.gov/search/search?q=asymptotic%20approximations%20of%20integrals) , [asymptotic expansions](http://dlmf.nist.gov/search/search?q=asymptotic%20expansions) , [asymptotic expansions for large parameters](http://dlmf.nist.gov/search/search?q=asymptotic%20expansions%20for%20large%20parameters) , [error term](http://dlmf.nist.gov/search/search?q=error%20term) , [integration by parts](http://dlmf.nist.gov/search/search?q=integration%20by%20parts) , [variational operator](http://dlmf.nist.gov/search/search?q=variational%20operator)

**Notes:**

See Olver ([1997b](./bib/O.html#bib1809 "Asymptotics and Special Functions"), pp. 66–70, 75–76).

**Referenced by:**

§10.40(iii) , §2.10(ii) , §2.11(i) , §2.7(iii)

**See also:**

Annotations for §2.3 and Ch.2
:::

Assume that the Laplace transform


<a id="E1"></a>
$$
\int_{0}^{\infty}e^{-xt}q(t)\,\mathrm{d}t \tag{2.3.1}
$$

converges for all sufficiently large $x$ , and $q(t)$ is infinitely differentiable in a neighborhood of the origin. Then


<a id="E2"></a>
$$
\int_{0}^{\infty}e^{-xt}q(t)\,\mathrm{d}t\sim\sum_{s=0}^{\infty}\frac{q^{(s)}(0)}{x^{s+1}}, \tag{2.3.2}
$$

If, in addition, $q(t)$ is infinitely differentiable on $[0,\infty)$ and


<a id="E3"></a>
$$
\sigma_{n}=\sup_{(0,\infty)}(t^{-1}\ln|q^{(n)}(t)/q^{(n)}(0)|) \tag{2.3.3}
$$

is finite and bounded for $n=0,1,2,\dots$ , then the $n$ th *error term* (that is, the difference between the integral and $n$ th partial sum in ( 2.3.2 )) is bounded in absolute value by $|q^{(n)}(0)/(x^{n}(x-\sigma_{n}))|$ when $x$ exceeds both $0$ and $\sigma_{n}$ .

For the Fourier integral


<a id="Ex1"></a>
$$
\int_{a}^{b}e^{ixt}q(t)\,\mathrm{d}t
$$

assume $a$ and $b$ are finite, and $q(t)$ is infinitely differentiable on $[a,b]$ . Then


<a id="E4"></a>
$$
\int_{a}^{b}e^{ixt}q(t)\,\mathrm{d}t\sim e^{iax}\sum_{s=0}^{\infty}q^{(s)}(a)\left(\frac{i}{x}\right)^{s+1}-e^{ibx}\sum_{s=0}^{\infty}q^{(s)}(b)\left(\frac{i}{x}\right)^{s+1}, \tag{2.3.4}
$$

Alternatively, assume $b=\infty$ , $q(t)$ is infinitely differentiable on $[a,\infty)$ , and each of the integrals $\int e^{ixt}q^{(s)}(t)\,\mathrm{d}t$ , $s=0,1,2,\dots$ , converges as $t\to\infty$ uniformly for all sufficiently large $x$ . Then


<a id="E5"></a>
$$
\int_{a}^{\infty}e^{ixt}q(t)\,\mathrm{d}t\sim e^{iax}\sum_{s=0}^{\infty}q^{(s)}(a)\left(\frac{i}{x}\right)^{s+1}, \tag{2.3.5}
$$

In both cases the $n$ th error term is bounded in absolute value by $x^{-n}\mathcal{V}_{a,b}\left(q^{(n-1)}(t)\right)$ , where the *variational operator* $\mathcal{V}_{a,b}$ is defined by


<a id="E6"></a>
$$
\mathcal{V}_{a,b}\left(f(t)\right)=\int_{a}^{b}\left|f^{\prime}(t)\right|\,\mathrm{d}t; \tag{2.3.6}
$$

see § 1.4(v) . For other examples, see Wong ([1989](./bib/W.html#bib2438 "Asymptotic Approximations of Integrals"), Chapter 1).


## §2.3(ii) Watson’s Lemma

:::{note}
**Keywords:**

[Laplace transform](http://dlmf.nist.gov/search/search?q=Laplace%20transform) , [Watson’s lemma](http://dlmf.nist.gov/search/search?q=Watson%20lemma) , [asymptotic approximations of integrals](http://dlmf.nist.gov/search/search?q=asymptotic%20approximations%20of%20integrals) , [asymptotic expansions for large parameters](http://dlmf.nist.gov/search/search?q=asymptotic%20expansions%20for%20large%20parameters) , [asymptotic expansions of integrals](http://dlmf.nist.gov/search/search?q=asymptotic%20expansions%20of%20integrals) , [generalized](http://dlmf.nist.gov/search/search?q=generalized)

**Notes:**

See Olver ([1997b](./bib/O.html#bib1809 "Asymptotics and Special Functions"), pp. 71–72). For ( 2.3.9 ) see Wong ([1989](./bib/W.html#bib2438 "Asymptotic Approximations of Integrals"), §2.2). For ( 2.3.12 ) use termwise integration in an analogous manner to that used to prove Watson’s lemma (Olver, [1997b](./bib/O.html#bib1809 "Asymptotics and Special Functions"), pp. 71–72).

**Referenced by:**

§2.3(iv) , §2.4(i) , §2.6(i) , Erratum (V1.1.0) for Subsections 2.3(ii), 2.3(iv), 2.3(vi)

**Clarification (effective with 1.1.0):**

Just above ( 2.3.9 ), a clarification on $t$ -powers and citation were added.

**See also:**

Annotations for §2.3 and Ch.2
:::

Assume again that the integral ( 2.3.1 ) converges for all sufficiently large $x$ , but now


<a id="E7"></a>
$$
q(t)\sim\sum_{s=0}^{\infty}a_{s}t^{(s+\lambda-\mu)/\mu}, \tag{2.3.7}
$$

where $\lambda$ and $\mu$ are positive constants. Then the series obtained by substituting ( 2.3.7 ) into ( 2.3.1 ) and integrating formally term by term yields an asymptotic expansion:


<a id="E8"></a>
$$
\int_{0}^{\infty}e^{-xt}q(t)\,\mathrm{d}t\sim\sum_{s=0}^{\infty}\Gamma\left(\frac{s+\lambda}{\mu}\right)\frac{a_{s}}{x^{(s+\lambda)/\mu}}, \tag{2.3.8}
$$

For the function $\Gamma$ see § 5.2(i) .

This result is probably the most frequently used method for deriving asymptotic expansions of special functions. Since $q(t)$ need not be continuous (as long as the integral converges), the case of a finite integration range is included. For an extension with more general $t$ -powers see Bleistein and Handelsman ([1975](./bib/B.html#bib300 "Asymptotic Expansions of Integrals"), §4.1).

Other types of singular behavior in the integrand can be treated in an analogous manner. For example,


<a id="E9"></a>
$$
\int_{0}^{\infty}e^{-xt}q(t)\ln t\,\mathrm{d}t\sim\sum_{s=0}^{\infty}\Gamma'\left(\frac{s+\lambda}{\mu}\right)\frac{a_{s}}{x^{(s+\lambda)/\mu}}-(\ln x)\sum_{s=0}^{\infty}\Gamma\left(\frac{s+\lambda}{\mu}\right)\frac{a_{s}}{x^{(s+\lambda)/\mu}}, \tag{2.3.9}
$$

provided that the integral on the left-hand side of ( 2.3.9 ) converges for all sufficiently large values of $x$ . (In other words, differentiation of ( 2.3.8 ) with respect to the parameter $\lambda$ (or $\mu$ ) is legitimate.)

Another extension is to more general factors than the exponential function. In addition to ( 2.3.7 ) assume that $f(t)$ and $q(t)$ are piecewise continuous (§ 1.4(ii) ) on $(0,\infty)$ , and


<a id="E10"></a>
$$
|f(t)|\leq A\exp\left(-at^{\kappa}\right), \tag{2.3.10}
$$


<a id="E11"></a>
$$
q(t)=O\left(\exp\left(bt^{\kappa}\right)\right), \tag{2.3.11}
$$

where $A,a,b,\kappa$ are positive constants. Then


<a id="E12"></a>
$$
\int_{0}^{\infty}f(xt)q(t)\,\mathrm{d}t\sim\sum_{s=0}^{\infty}\mathscr{M}\mskip-3.0muf\mskip 3.0mu\left(\frac{s+\lambda}{\mu}\right)\frac{a_{s}}{x^{(s+\lambda)/\mu}}, \tag{2.3.12}
$$

where $\mathscr{M}\mskip-3.0muf\mskip 3.0mu\left(\alpha\right)$ is the *Mellin transform* of $f(t)$ (§ 2.5(i) ).

For a more detailed treatment of the integral ( 2.3.12 ) see §§ [2.5](./2.5.md "§2.5 Mellin Transform Methods ‣ Areas ‣ Chapter 2 Asymptotic Approximations") , [2.6](./2.6.md "§2.6 Distributional Methods ‣ Areas ‣ Chapter 2 Asymptotic Approximations") .


## §2.3(iii) Laplace’s Method

:::{note}
**Keywords:**

[Laplace’s method](http://dlmf.nist.gov/search/search?q=Laplace%20method) , [Laplace’s method for asymptotic expansions of integrals](http://dlmf.nist.gov/search/search?q=Laplace%20method%20for%20asymptotic%20expansions%20of%20integrals) , [asymptotic approximations of integrals](http://dlmf.nist.gov/search/search?q=asymptotic%20approximations%20of%20integrals)

**Notes:**

See Olver ([1997b](./bib/O.html#bib1809 "Asymptotics and Special Functions"), pp. 80–88). ( 2.3.18 ) follows from ( 1.10.15 ) and ( 1.10.17 ) by setting $f(t)=p(t)$ , $g(t)=\ifrac{q(t)}{\left(p^{\prime}(t)(p(t)-p(a))^{(\lambda/\mu)-1}\right)}$ , using Cauchy’s integral formula ( 1.9.30 ) for the residue, and integrating by parts. See also Cicuta and Montaldi ([1975](./bib/C.html#bib510 "Remarks on the full asymptotic expansion of Feynman parametrized integrals")).

**Referenced by:**

§2.10(iii) , §2.3(iv) , §2.3(v) , §2.4(iii) , §2.4(iv) , §35.7(iv) , §7.19(iii)

**See also:**

Annotations for §2.3 and Ch.2
:::

When $p(t)$ is real and $x$ is a large positive parameter, the main contribution to the integral


<a id="E13"></a>
$$
I(x)=\int_{a}^{b}e^{-xp(t)}q(t)\,\mathrm{d}t \tag{2.3.13}
$$

derives from the neighborhood of the minimum of $p(t)$ in the integration range. Without loss of generality, we assume that this minimum is at the left endpoint $a$ . Furthermore:

<a id="E14"></a>

<a id="Ex2"></a>
$$
\displaystyle p(t) \displaystyle\sim p(a)+\sum_{s=0}^{\infty}p_{s}(t-a)^{s+\mu}, \tag{2.3.14}
$$

<a id="Ex3"></a>
$$
\displaystyle q(t) \displaystyle\sim\sum_{s=0}^{\infty}q_{s}(t-a)^{s+\lambda-1},
$$

:::{note}
**Symbols:**

$\sim$: Poincaré asymptotic expansion , $a$: left endpoint , $p(t)$: real function , $p_{s}$: coefficients , $q(t)$: function , $q_{s}$: coefficients , $\lambda$: positive constant and $\mu$: positive constant

**Referenced by:**

item (b)

**See also:**

Annotations for §2.3(iii) , §2.3 and Ch.2
:::

Then


<a id="E15"></a>
$$
\int_{a}^{b}e^{-xp(t)}q(t)\,\mathrm{d}t\sim e^{-xp(a)}\sum_{s=0}^{\infty}\Gamma\left(\frac{s+\lambda}{\mu}\right)\frac{b_{s}}{x^{(s+\lambda)/\mu}}, \tag{2.3.15}
$$

where the coefficients $b_{s}$ are defined by the expansion


<a id="E16"></a>
$$
\frac{q(t)}{p^{\prime}(t)}\sim\sum_{s=0}^{\infty}b_{s}v^{(s+\lambda-\mu)/\mu}, \tag{2.3.16}
$$

in which $v=p(t)-p(a)$ . For example,

<a id="E17"></a>

<a id="Ex4"></a>
$$
\displaystyle b_{0} \displaystyle=\frac{q_{0}}{\mu p_{0}^{\lambda/\mu}}, \tag{2.3.17}
$$

<a id="Ex5"></a>
$$
\displaystyle b_{1} \displaystyle=\left(\frac{q_{1}}{\mu}-\frac{(\lambda+1)p_{1}q_{0}}{\mu^{2}p_{0}}\right)\frac{1}{p_{0}^{(\lambda+1)/\mu}},
$$

<a id="Ex6"></a>
$$
\displaystyle b_{2} \displaystyle=\left(\frac{q_{2}}{\mu}-\frac{(\lambda+2)(p_{1}q_{1}+p_{2}q_{0})}{\mu^{2}p_{0}}+\frac{(\lambda+2)(\lambda+\mu+2)p_{1}^{2}q_{0}}{2\mu^{3}p_{0}^{2}}\right)\frac{1}{p_{0}^{(\lambda+2)/\mu}}.
$$

:::{note}
**Symbols:**

$b$: right endpoint , $p_{s}$: coefficients , $q_{s}$: coefficients , $\lambda$: positive constant and $\mu$: positive constant

**See also:**

Annotations for §2.3(iii) , §2.3 and Ch.2
:::

In general


<a id="E18"></a>
$$
b_{s}=\frac{1}{\mu}\Residue_{t=a}\left[\frac{q(t)}{(p(t)-p(a))^{(\lambda+s)/\mu}}\right], \tag{2.3.18}
$$

Watson’s lemma can be regarded as a special case of this result.

For error bounds for Watson’s lemma and Laplace’s method see Boyd ([1993](./bib/B.html#bib335 "Error bounds for the method of steepest descents")) and Olver ([1997b](./bib/O.html#bib1809 "Asymptotics and Special Functions"), Chapter 3). These references and Wong ([1989](./bib/W.html#bib2438 "Asymptotic Approximations of Integrals"), Chapter 2) also contain examples.


## §2.3(iv) Method of Stationary Phase

:::{note}
**Keywords:**

[Fourier integral](http://dlmf.nist.gov/search/search?q=Fourier%20integral) , [asymptotic approximations of integrals](http://dlmf.nist.gov/search/search?q=asymptotic%20approximations%20of%20integrals) , [asymptotic expansions](http://dlmf.nist.gov/search/search?q=asymptotic%20expansions) , [extensions](http://dlmf.nist.gov/search/search?q=extensions) , [method of stationary phase](http://dlmf.nist.gov/search/search?q=method%20of%20stationary%20phase)

**Referenced by:**

§36.11 , §36.7(ii) , Erratum (V1.1.0) for Subsections 2.3(ii), 2.3(iv), 2.3(vi)

**Clarification (effective with 1.1.0):**

At the end of this subsection a clarification on $t$ -powers and citation were added.

**See also:**

Annotations for §2.3 and Ch.2
:::

When the parameter $x$ is large the contributions from the real and imaginary parts of the integrand in


<a id="E19"></a>
$$
I(x)=\int_{a}^{b}e^{ixp(t)}q(t)\,\mathrm{d}t \tag{2.3.19}
$$

oscillate rapidly and cancel themselves over most of the range. However, cancellation does not take place near the endpoints, owing to lack of symmetry, nor in the neighborhoods of zeros of $p^{\prime}(t)$ because $p(t)$ changes relatively slowly at these stationary points.

The first result is the analog of Watson’s lemma (§ 2.3(ii) ). Assume that $q(t)$ again has the expansion ( 2.3.7 ) and this expansion is infinitely differentiable, $q(t)$ is infinitely differentiable on $(0,\infty)$ , and each of the integrals $\int e^{ixt}q^{(s)}(t)\,\mathrm{d}t$ , $s=0,1,2,\dots$ , converges at $t=\infty$ , uniformly for all sufficiently large $x$ . Then


<a id="E20"></a>
$$
\int_{0}^{\infty}e^{ixt}q(t)\,\mathrm{d}t\sim\sum_{s=0}^{\infty}\exp\left(\frac{(s+\lambda)\pi i}{2\mu}\right)\Gamma\left(\frac{s+\lambda}{\mu}\right)\frac{a_{s}}{x^{(s+\lambda)/\mu}}, \tag{2.3.20}
$$

where the coefficients $a_{s}$ are given by ( 2.3.7 ).

For the more general integral ( 2.3.19 ) we assume, without loss of generality, that the stationary point (if any) is at the left endpoint. Furthermore:


<a id="E21"></a>
$$
P_{s}(t)=\left(\frac{1}{p^{\prime}(t)}\frac{\mathrm{d}}{\mathrm{d}t}\right)^{s}\frac{q(t)}{p^{\prime}(t)}, \tag{2.3.21}
$$


<a id="E22"></a>
$$
\int e^{ixp(t)}P_{s}(t)p^{\prime}(t)\,\mathrm{d}t, \tag{2.3.22}
$$

If $p(b)$ is finite, then both endpoints contribute:


<a id="E23"></a>
$$
\int_{a}^{b}e^{ixp(t)}q(t)\,\mathrm{d}t\sim e^{ixp(a)}\sum_{s=0}^{\infty}\exp\left(\frac{(s+\lambda)\pi i}{2\mu}\right)\Gamma\left(\frac{s+\lambda}{\mu}\right)\frac{b_{s}}{x^{(s+\lambda)/\mu}}-e^{ixp(b)}\sum_{s=0}^{\infty}P_{s}(b)\left(\frac{i}{x}\right)^{s+1}, \tag{2.3.23}
$$

But if (d) applies, then the second sum is absent. The coefficients $b_{s}$ are defined as in § 2.3(iii) .

For proofs of the results of this subsection, error bounds, and an example, see Olver ([1974](./bib/O.html#bib1793 "Error bounds for stationary phase approximations")). For other estimates of the error term see Lyness ([1971](./bib/L.html#bib1509 "Adjusted forms of the Fourier coefficient asymptotic expansion and applications in numerical quadrature")). For extensions to oscillatory integrals with more general $t$ -powers and logarithmic singularities see Wong and Lin ([1978](./bib/W.html#bib2433 "Asymptotic expansions of Fourier transforms of functions with logarithmic singularities")) and Sidi ([2010](./bib/S.html#bib2934 "A simple approach to asymptotic expansions for Fourier integrals of singular functions")).


## §2.3(v) Coalescing Peak and Endpoint: Bleistein’s Method

:::{note}
**Keywords:**

[Bleistein’s method](http://dlmf.nist.gov/search/search?q=Bleistein%20method) , [asymptotic approximations of integrals](http://dlmf.nist.gov/search/search?q=asymptotic%20approximations%20of%20integrals) , [coalescing peak and endpoint](http://dlmf.nist.gov/search/search?q=coalescing%20peak%20and%20endpoint)

**Referenced by:**

§2.4(v) , §2.4(vi) , §2.8(vi)

**See also:**

Annotations for §2.3 and Ch.2
:::

In the integral


<a id="E24"></a>
$$
I(\alpha,x)=\int_{0}^{k}e^{-xp(\alpha,t)}q(\alpha,t)t^{\lambda-1}\,\mathrm{d}t \tag{2.3.24}
$$

$k$ ( $\leq\infty$ ) and $\lambda$ are positive constants, $\alpha$ is a variable parameter in an interval $\alpha_{1}\leq\alpha\leq\alpha_{2}$ with $\alpha_{1}\leq 0$ and $0<\alpha_{2}\leq k$ , and $x$ is a large positive parameter. Assume also that $\ifrac{{\partial}^{2}p(\alpha,t)}{{\partial t}^{2}}$ and $q(\alpha,t)$ are continuous in $\alpha$ and $t$ , and for each $\alpha$ the minimum value of $p(\alpha,t)$ in $[0,k)$ is at $t=\alpha$ , at which point $\ifrac{\partial p(\alpha,t)}{\partial t}$ vanishes, but both $\ifrac{{\partial}^{2}p(\alpha,t)}{{\partial t}^{2}}$ and $q(\alpha,t)$ are nonzero. When $x\to+\infty$ Laplace’s method (§ 2.3(iii) ) applies, but the form of the resulting approximation is discontinuous at $\alpha=0$ . In consequence, the approximation is nonuniform with respect to $\alpha$ and deteriorates severely as $\alpha\to 0$ .

A uniform approximation can be constructed by quadratic change of integration variable:


<a id="E25"></a>
$$
p(\alpha,t)=\tfrac{1}{2}w^{2}-aw+b, \tag{2.3.25}
$$

where $a$ and $b$ are functions of $\alpha$ chosen in such a way that $t=0$ corresponds to $w=0$ , and the stationary points $t=\alpha$ and $w=a$ correspond. Thus

<a id="E26"></a>

<a id="Ex7"></a>
$$
\displaystyle a \displaystyle=(2p(\alpha,0)-2p(\alpha,\alpha))^{1/2}, \tag{2.3.26}
$$

<a id="Ex8"></a>
$$
\displaystyle b \displaystyle=p(\alpha,0),
$$

:::{note}
**Symbols:**

$p(\alpha,t)$: function , $a(\alpha)$ and $b(\alpha)$

**See also:**

Annotations for §2.3(v) , §2.3 and Ch.2
:::


<a id="E27"></a>
$$
w=(2p(\alpha,0)-2p(\alpha,\alpha))^{1/2}\pm(2p(\alpha,t)-2p(\alpha,\alpha))^{1/2}, \tag{2.3.27}
$$

the upper or lower sign being taken according as $t\gtrless\alpha$ . The relationship between $t$ and $w$ is one-to-one, and because


<a id="E28"></a>
$$
\frac{\mathrm{d}w}{\mathrm{d}t}=\pm\frac{1}{(2p(\alpha,t)-2p(\alpha,\alpha))^{1/2}}\frac{\partial p(\alpha,t)}{\partial t} \tag{2.3.28}
$$

it is free from singularity at $t=\alpha$ .

The integral ( 2.3.24 ) transforms into


<a id="E29"></a>
$$
I(\alpha,x)=e^{-xp(\alpha,0)}\*\int_{0}^{\kappa}\exp\left(-x\left(\tfrac{1}{2}w^{2}-aw\right)\right)f(\alpha,w)w^{\lambda-1}\,\mathrm{d}w, \tag{2.3.29}
$$

where


<a id="E30"></a>
$$
f(\alpha,w)=q(\alpha,t)\left(\frac{t}{w}\right)^{\lambda-1}\frac{\mathrm{d}t}{\mathrm{d}w}, \tag{2.3.30}
$$

$\kappa=\kappa(\alpha)$ being the value of $w$ at $t=k$ . We now expand $f(\alpha,w)$ in a Taylor series centered at the peak value $w=a$ of the exponential factor in the integrand:


<a id="E31"></a>
$$
f(\alpha,w)=\sum_{s=0}^{\infty}\phi_{s}(\alpha)(w-a)^{s}, \tag{2.3.31}
$$

with the coefficients $\phi_{s}(\alpha)$ continuous at $\alpha=0$ . The desired uniform expansion is then obtained formally as in Watson’s lemma and Laplace’s method. We replace the limit $\kappa$ by $\infty$ and integrate term-by-term:


<a id="E32"></a>
$$
I(\alpha,x)\sim\frac{e^{-xp(\alpha,0)}}{x^{\lambda/2}}\sum_{s=0}^{\infty}\phi_{s}(\alpha)\frac{F_{s}(a\sqrt{x})}{x^{s/2}}, \tag{2.3.32}
$$

where


<a id="E33"></a>
$$
F_{s}(y)=\int_{0}^{\infty}\exp\left(-\tfrac{1}{2}\tau^{2}+y\tau\right)(\tau-y)^{s}\tau^{\lambda-1}\,\mathrm{d}\tau. \tag{2.3.33}
$$

For examples and proofs see Olver ([1997b](./bib/O.html#bib1809 "Asymptotics and Special Functions"), Chapter 9), Bleistein ([1966](./bib/B.html#bib298 "Uniform asymptotic expansions of integrals with stationary point near algebraic singularity")), Bleistein and Handelsman ([1975](./bib/B.html#bib300 "Asymptotic Expansions of Integrals"), Chapter 9), and Wong ([1989](./bib/W.html#bib2438 "Asymptotic Approximations of Integrals"), Chapter 7).


## §2.3(vi) Asymptotics of Mellin Transforms

:::{note}
**Keywords:**

[Mellin transform](http://dlmf.nist.gov/search/search?q=Mellin%20transform) , [asymptotic approximations of integrals](http://dlmf.nist.gov/search/search?q=asymptotic%20approximations%20of%20integrals)

**Referenced by:**

Erratum (V1.1.0) for Subsections 2.3(ii), 2.3(iv), 2.3(vi)

**Addition (effective with 1.1.0):**

This subsection was added.

**See also:**

Annotations for §2.3 and Ch.2
:::

For the asymptotics of the Mellin transform $\mathscr{M}\mskip-3.0muf\mskip 3.0mu\left(z\right)=\int^{\infty}_{0}t^{z-1}f(t)\,\mathrm{d}t$ as $z\to\infty$ see Frenzen ([1987b](./bib/F.html#bib2931 "On the asymptotic expansion of Mellin transforms")), Sidi ([1985](./bib/S.html#bib2933 "Asymptotic expansions of Mellin transforms and analogues of Watson’s lemma"), [2011](./bib/S.html#bib2935 "Asymptotic expansion of Mellin transforms in the complex plane")).
